- [Instructor] GraphQL is a very popular way
of exposing data to a UI in modern web applications.
Now, a lot of times
we write GraphQL services using JavaScript,
but if you want to do it in Java,
Quarkus has built-in support
for building a GraphQL-based service.
So, let's take a look at how.
All right, we're going to create one last time,
for this course, a new module.
I'll use my ID plugin.
(keys clacking)
We're going to call this one room-service-graphQL.
Go ahead and select Next.
So, now, in web, so a couple options for GraphQL.
And the one that we are going to choose,
is the SmallRye GraphQL end point.
We also need to go ahead and do our database once again
and I'm going to use the DataStax Apache Cassandra client.
And we'll go ahead and generate that up.
All right, let's do some copy, paste again.
So source main Java,
I want to bring over the room and the roomService.
And I'm also going to get rid of the example resource
by renaming it to RoomResource.
All right so, now let's come back up here to our Resources
and let's bring over the Cassandra specific resources.
All right so, we're done with our room service.
So, now, let's go to this RoomResource class.
(keys clacking)
We're going to get rid of a lot of this stuff.
Including all of the
rest data.
We're going to annotate this with GraphQLApi.
We will inject.
(keys clacking)
Our roomService.
Now, we're going to create Query
and that query will simply be called allRooms.
And we'll go ahead and give it a description.
The description that we will give it is,
"Gets all rooms for the hotel."
public list "room",
getAllRooms.
Let's do imports and spell those correctly.
And once again, we will do a return
on the roomService that getAllRooms.
That's all there is to it.
Let's start up our roomService graphQL application.
All right, now that that's up,
we're going to go to a web browser,
and in a web browser, the first thing that I want to do,
is I want to go to local host:8080/graphQL/schema.graphQL
and you'll see that we get the full schema
for our GraphQL service.
That's great, but there's actually a better way to do this.
Because GraphQL itself,
ships with a sort of playground.
And while it's not the true playground that comes
with GraphQL, it's extremely similar
and it'll do everything that you need it to do.
So let's get rid of all of this noise here
for a minute and let's build a GraphQL query.
So the query that we're going to call is allRooms.
And to start with let's set roomNnumber,
and bedInfo and name.
And we'll execute that and indeed we get all
of our rooms as data coming out of our service.
Now, the reason people like GraphQL,
one of the reasons, is you could take in, dynamically say,
"Well, I don't need name," and now it doesn't return it.
Now this is just the basics here.
This is not in any way, shape or form going
into the depth of GraphQL,
but the doc for the GraphQL implementation,
has a lot more detail including how to do mutations
in GraphQL as well as expanding the APIs,
so you can link resources together
and query multiple resources out of the GraphQL API.